## Enetheru: 4/06/2024 5:44:12 PM
--------------------------------------
I've spend the last two weeks or so figuring out how to make a parser, and
doing a bad job at it, I think I have three re-writes for the current state and
I am really unhappy with the result.

I think in the future it would be better to write it in c++ and try to get the
AST from the flatbuffers internal parser if I can, not sure if I can get some
hook for where in the file the lines of code happen though.

I might also want to look at how the existin parsers are built, how other
syntax highlighters work, etc.. I was basically trying to parse the thing, I
could end up building based off it.. nvm it works badly but it works for now.

I have to move onto other things.

## Enetheru: 5/06/2024 10:16:38 AM
--------------------------------------
#Bugs
Discovered a problem with the way I update the right click menu, in that it
doesnt alter the position of the menu when opened, if the item you are
selecting is low enough in the menu, the generate button is cut off.

The location of the flatc.exe needs to be local to the project so that it
doesn't need to be set manually.

And I'm sure I will find others.

I also want to implement namespaces in the flatc compiler so that it prefixes
onto the function names as gdscript doesnt have namespaces

ie

```c++ # aka flatbuffers
namespace name.andname;

table MyTable {
}
```

results in:

```gdscript
class name_andname_MyTable:
	...
```


I also need to hide all the print statements behind some flags so that a user
doesnt need to see them, but also so I can have them available.

after generation the script is not reloaded.

On a failed compile, there is no error message.

I want a free function in gdscript which gets the root table

Calling FlatBufferBuilder.new() crashes godot editor, which is a problem.
add a defauly argument of 1024 to make FlatBufferBuilder.create() possible

getting a flatbuffer, check for the size of the data to make sure it at least
matches the minimum size that it could be.

