So today I have been trying to sort out the difficulty of the cmake build script, and its been a slow process of re-jugging what I have and taking out all the cruft from the basics.

I have discovered that its possible to change the default build types to something resembling normal.
However, that appears to be relied upon for others things.

The build presets can do interesting things, but not everything.

Inside a configurePreset;
```json
"environment": {
    "CMAKE_CONFIGURATION_TYPES": "Editor;EditorDev;Template;TemplateDebug",
    "CMAKE_DEFAULT_BUILD_TYPE": "Editor",
    "CMAKE_BUILD_PARALLEL_LEVEL ": "12"
},
```

But instead I am going to use the defaults, and simply re-interpret their meaning.
* Debug = Editor
* Release = Template
* RelWithDebInfo = Template_Debug

And for editor with dev build info, I will just add another flag for that.

GODDAMN, the woeful setup of the cmake project in the gdextension brings me to tears. I have spent the whole day looking at this shit.

2024-09-10
contribution from aaronfranke
Hey Enetheru, a friend of mine started working on bringing the CMake stuff up to feature parity with SCons, but unfortunately had to stop working on it because CMake was affecting his mental health. You can find the work he did so far here: [https://github.com/aaronfranke/godot-cpp/tree/arch](https://github.com/aaronfranke/godot-cpp/tree/arch "https://github.com/aaronfranke/godot-cpp/tree/arch")
Here is the text I sent to my friend:

We need CMake to match the feature set of Godot's SCons scripts.

Important features:

- Arch selection: Godot's SCons allows it with `scons arch=arm64` etc. For CMake we can do `-DGODOT_ARCH=arm64` etc.
- Platform selection: Godot's SCons allows it with `scons platform=whatever`. For CMake we need to use toolchains instead.
- Target selection: Godot's SCons allows it with `scons target=editor`, `target=template_debug`, etc. I'm not sure how to do this with CMake, maybe it hasn't been implemented yet.
- Compiler selection: Godot's SCons allows using Clang/LLVM on Linux with `scons use_llvm=yes`, and MinGW on Windows with `scons use_mingw=yes`. By default it uses GCC on Linux and MSVC on Windows. However to be honest this is bad in SCons too, ideally it should be replaced with something like `-DGODOT_COMPILER=clang` or `-DGODOT_COMPILER=mingw`.
- Float precision level: Godot's SCons allows `scons precision=double`. For CMake it already has a `-DFLOAT_PRECISION=double`.
- Multithreading: Godot's SCons automatically uses all threads, but it can be overridden with `scons -j10` etc. For CMake IIRC it's `--threads=10`, would be nice to make this automatic when not specified (instead of 1 thread by default currently).
- Exceptions: Must disable them, it improves performance. Godot's SCons and CMake already do this.
- Optimizations / debugging / etc: Godot's SCons has several options for these, ideally CMake should have them too.
- For godot-cpp specifically, we need to be able to specify on the command line a custom path to an extension API JSON file in case someone is building godot-cpp for a custom fork of Godot. The CMake script already does this I think.
- For godot-cpp specifically, we need a flag for building with or without thread support.
- For godot-cpp specifically, we need a flag for building with or without hot reload support.
- SCons does not generate build files like CMake does. The fact that CMake does this needs to be as transparent as possible. Meaning, standardized on a folder name like `cmake_build`, put that in the .gitignore, and ensure that if the user selects this path or any other path it will still be able to compile.
