## Enetheru: 6/05/2024 8:19:34 AM
--------------------------------------
I guess I have been doing this for a week, as my last entry was in April.

I want to write down the perhaps most confusing part of this whole flatbuffer
definition and thats how to get to the locations of the sub obejcts.

I will use
_pos to denote the absolute offset from the start of the file.
_offset for relative positioning
voffset to denote the virtual table offset
toffset to denote the offset relative to the start of the table

like root_pos which is the absolute position of the root table from the start
of the file.

voffset = is known and fixed, determned by schema field order.

toffset = decode_s16(table_pos - vtable_offset + voffset)

field_pos = root_table_pos + toffset + decode_u32( root_table_pos + toffset )

I'm a little tired today from lack of sleep, so cant focus on whether this is
correct and now want to move on to continuing to generate the accessor struct.

## Enetheru: 7/05/2024 9:43:17 AM
--------------------------------------
OK so now my motivation is flagging for some reason, which means I need to
figure out the blocking reasons and overcome them.

The next field to decode is the accessor in a table for a struct.

OK brain doing what brain does: figuring out how to perhaps re-structure the
project to make sense.

I am about to integrate the information I have back into  the main, Only union
types still exist to generate code for.

What next?

I need to re-work the gdextension so that I can remove the GD_FlatBuffer class
and use FlatBuffer instead.

Also implement the helper functions in terms of c++ to remove the GD_Flatbuffer
thing altogether.

Might be possible to have an alternative implementation built entirely within
gdscript, but I prefer using an extension.

I need to create c++ flatbuffers for the basic types in godot like Vector3 etc.

I also want a test corpus, and a pretty printing function.

it would be nice to be able to generate bfbs for types, and have them displayed
in godot somehow.

I also need tools within godot to generate the flatbuffer classes from fbs
files.

OK it's a bit much, I keep running into feature creep.

I need to figure out how to read these union types. I think I might need to
have a test framework already. Otherwise how am I to know if my auto generated
code can actually read the things..

SO I think that is next.

I can have an editor script that I can run on demand easily enough, but there
is no pleasant button to do it, and relies on menus.

Would be nice to have a button.

It would also be really useful to have an editor plugin base that I can extend
with interesting things.

So many side projects.

Definitely needed to close the loop on this generated code, I'm getting junk in
return.

OK I have a testing script which prints out information about the bfbs, whats
next?

I do need to figure out union types, and I need some form of test corpus, and
then I also need to figure out a way to write to flatbuffers.

I think perhaps I should try to read up on writing a little.

## Enetheru: 8/05/2024 8:06:54 AM
--------------------------------------
Well that didnt happen, but I did do some work on the gdextension and started
pulling in the gdscript classes I was using, only one function remaining, but
it ties to another class which I'm thinking of rolling into the main.

There are really only a couple of methods, and an extra variable or two.

How about I see if I can make that work.

OK I have some pretty dramatic changes that I need to make to the api, and it's
done in both the flatbuffer project and the godot-flatbuffer gdextension.

Basically I need to replace all the decode functions.. I simply don't need the
translation. which reduces complexity a bunch, but it also causes a lot of
change.

To get the decode func for an array, I need to encode the type into the array
somehow.

I might still be able to use a callable on the bytes.

I need the callable still, but just not for known types.

I guess I need to start breaking things.

But I need to commit my changes before I start hacking away at it.


## Enetheru: 9/05/2024 5:02:21 PM
--------------------------------------
I've been hacking away at creating some code gen between flatbuffers and godot,
and it's been going OK. I have some rudimentary work, but there is no system I
am following and it's getting to be a drag.

When it came to working on the builders, I found myself getting lost, and
repeating myself, I need a better way to think and work on the problems.

For each field I need to generate different things, and those fields can be
classified into groups

Some obvious ones are scalars, and tables.
but there are also vectors or arrays, and depending on the combination of these
things will depend on how the code generation happens.

So for each field, there is a sort of category, and an optional subcategory

Scalar - simple value that can be decoded in one shot.
Table | Struct - Because of the way godot works, these are basically the same.
Vector | Array - I'm not sure I see difference between these either.
String appears to be a special type.


Lets tackle the scalar case first since it's the easiest.
There is
* flatbuffer type
* gdscript type


BaseType_UType = 1,

BaseType_Bool = 2,
BaseType_Byte = 3,
BaseType_UByte = 4,
BaseType_Short = 5,
BaseType_UShort = 6,
BaseType_Int = 7,
BaseType_UInt = 8,
BaseType_Long = 9,
BaseType_ULong = 10,
BaseType_Float = 11,
BaseType_Double = 12,

BaseType_String = 13,

BaseType_Vector = 14,

BaseType_Obj = 15,

BaseType_Union = 16,

BaseType_Array = 17,

BaseType_Vector64 = 18,

The idea is that I have a bunch of standard functions.
For instance.

```gdscript
class_name FB_TABLE extends FlatBuffer:
	var bytes : PackedByteArray

# Scalar Types
	func FIELD_NAME() -> GODOT_TYPE:
		var field_start : int = ...
		return bytes.decode_DECODE_TYPE(field_start)

# Enum Type
	func FIELD_NAME() -> GODOT_TYPE:
		var field_start : int = ...
		return bytes.decode_DECODE_TYPE( field_start )

# String Type
	func FIELD_NAME() -> String:
		var field_type : int = ...
		return decode_string( field_start )

# Table and Struct Types
	func FIELD_NAME() -> FIELD_TYPE:
		var field_start : int = ...
		return FIELD_TYPE.GetFIELD_TYPE( field_start, bytes )

# Vector Types:

# Vector of Scalars
	func FIELD_NAME_count() -> int:
		return the number of items in the array

	func FIELD_NAME_get( idx : int ) -> GODOT_TYPE:
		

	# Vector of byte and ubyte
	func FIELD_NAME() -> PackedByteArray:
		var field_start : int = ...
		return FlatBufferArray.new( field_start, bytes, CONSTRUCTOR_FUNC )

# Vector of Strings

# Vector of Structs
	func FIELD_NAME() -> FlatBufferArray:
		var field_start : int = ...
		return FlatBufferArray.new( field_start, bytes, CONSTRUCTOR_FUNC )

# Vector of Vectors?

```
So far the identifyers are:
* FIELD_NAME
* GODOT_TYPE
* FIELD_TYPE


And I got caught when trying to deal with vectors.

I have really only a couple of requirements for the flatbuffer array, and thats
that I give it the start, and the bytes, and a constructor function which can
output the values.

I wanted the constructor func to be in the form:
```gdscript
func constructor_func( start, bytes )
```

But that created a bunch of duplication.
It's still somethign I am mulling over.

Then there is the builder

```gdscript

class_name TB_TABLE_BUILDER extends FlatBufferBuilder:

# Add a Scalar Value
	func add_FIELD_NAME( FIELD_NAME : GODOT_TYPE = DEFAULT_VALUE ):
		assert( check_FIELD_TYPE( FIELD_NAME ), "Error Message" )
		add_FIELD_TYPE( FIELD_NAME )

```
There is a rather large problem in the making that all godot integer types are
64bit, as are their float types. SO that means that I am going to have to add
some check in there

and all the add functions are templatised, so I am going to have to create a
translation layer so that I can just do an add, and have it add the correct
type.

the scalars were simple, and I didnt know but I could create a single template
to bind to all the functions because it expands to proper functions.

These are the packed arrays I can construct easily.

PackedByteArray 8 bits

//Missing 16 bit array.

PackedInt32Array 32 bits
PackedInt64Array 64 bits

PackedFloat32Array float
PackedFloat64Array double

PackedStringArray String

PackedColorArray
PackedVector2Array
PackedVector3Array

The rest will have to come from constructor funcs.

Lets make the vector case again.

```gdscript
# Vector of Scalars
# Common to all:
	func FIELD_NAME_count() -> int:
		return the number of items in the array

# element access
	func FIELD_NAME_get( idx : int ) -> GODOT_TYPE:
		return ...
		
# Array Access varies with the type of element.

	# Vector of byte and ubyte
	func FIELD_NAME() -> PackedByteArray:
		var field_start : int = ...
		return ...
	
	# Vector of int and uint
	func FIELD_NAME() -> PackedInt32Array:

	# Vector of long and ulong
	func FIELD_NAME() -> PackedInt64Array:

	# vector of float
	func FIELD_NAME() -> PackedFloat32Array:

	# vector of double
	func FIELD_NAME() -> PackedFloat64Array:


```

I'm getting lost, and my anxiety is pretty high due to coffee, so I have to
take a break.

## Enetheru: 21/05/2024 1:37:00 PM
--------------------------------------
A week of sickness later.

I have to get writing flatbuffers to work.. I think it's too hard to start
tackling something complex at the beginning so simply being able to decode a
single scalar valu might be a good way to start.

I need to emulate the style of existing tools, so I guess I have to go back and
have a look at the way that c++ does it.

Thats right, there are two methods to constructing flatbuffers, there is the
singl function constructor, and the incremental build up of the elements.

I have to change the way my code works I am inheriting things that I don't have
to, and making things more difficult for myself to reason about.

The flatbufferbuilder class needs to be a pure abstraction of the c++ internal
flatbuffer builder so that I can just use it as the same thing.

The table builders do not inherit the builder, but hold it as a reference.

So the test code should look soemthing like

```gdscript
var builder = FlatBufferBuilder.new(1024)
var myObject = MyBuilder.Start( builder )
var offset = MyBuilder.add_value( builder, value )
builder.Finish( offset )
```



## Enetheru: 22/05/2024 2:26:48 PM
--------------------------------------
Today I started to try to push towards having a builder that works in the way
that is expected.

In order to make that happen I have had to modify the way the code generator
builds the classes, so that the root class is in the global scope. Everything
else acn be a subclass of that class.. I could push it out one further with
namespaces if I so wished. but for now thats how it is.
